Date: 2012-06-13
Title: Academia - No No No!

I wanted to write a quick article on my thoughts about Academia, mostly because many of my friends came from it, and it has become quite a large part of our lives.  To be clear, my academic experience was probably better than most - My advisor was fantastic, my department was supportive, and I finished my PhD in a 5 a reasonable amount of time.  The sentiments I express here do not reflect poorly on them, but they do on the institution as a whole.  I also wanted to add that my experience is very different than people in other fields because the connection between academia and industry is much tighter in Electrical Engineering than many other fields.  I do know many people in other fields, and I have an opinion about that as well.

### Why i dislike academia ###

I'll keep this brief, there are many better articles written about why academia stinks, and why you [shouldn't go](http://chronicle.com/article/Graduate-School-in-the/44846/)  I think the pipeline into the academic field is unethical - not because any of the participants but the nature of the system.  Undergraduates attend college, learn, are mentored by and look up to other academics - they really get an extremely biased view by people who want them to be just like themselves.  The culture of academia perpetuates the notion that the outside world is corrupt, but that everything is pure in the ivory tower.  This is both incredibly damaging, because it tricks people into thinking that leaving makes them failures, but it is also wrong.  I agree that business can be extermely negative, but I don't really think that academics can claim any moral ground - heir funding sources come from taxes on profits generated by all the corrupt businesses out there.  I also view knowledge production in academia to be mostly a selfish endeavor.  Academics write esoteric papers, that are only read by other elite academics, and rarely - if ever, make it back a real affect on the rest of society.  You also have to doubt the usefulness of the publishing machine, that allows things like the [Sokal Affair](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sokal_affair), or all the papers written by [SciGen](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SCIgen#List_of_works_with_notable_acceptance)

### Getting Out ###

Depending on your field, it can be easy, or hard to get out of academia.  I don't have any magic answers, but I wanted to clarify a few misconceptions I think academics have about the outside world that are damaging.  Academics have this notion of a meritocracy - this 
